# Technical and security incidents

* A DQT security incident resulted in the corruption of the Production DQT LegacyID dataset the afternoon of Monday 23 August, meaning schools/other users logging into DQT web services were shown the records of other schools. Given the severity of the incident in that it lead to the unauthorised disclosure of personal data, all the six DQT web portals were taken offline from ca. 16:00 on 24 August until ca. 15:00 27 August.

* During the DfE change from the Fortigate to Palo Alto firewalls in August, smoke tests by the DQT business identified the removal of an existing rule in the Fortigate firewalls prevented access to the DQT data export service via SQL server management studio. Feedback from Palo Alto was the firewall rule was overly permissive. Investigations by security have verified that the IP addresses are genuine Microsoft IPs that are necessitated based on the use of Microsoft PaaS. There are additional security investigations to restrict traffic to specific databases. These are dependent on recommendations from security and a business side tolerance of risk decision.

* The DTTP - DQT integration based on file exchange for TRNs and QTSs has failed on multiple, ad hoc, occasions during the peak data collection period from July - October. This was predominantly caused by issues with the DTTP and/or it’s Scribe server used for the file exchange. The routine failures demonstrate the instability of the existing data sharing mechanism. 

* The DQT - HESA API integration has failed on multiple, ad hoc, occasions during the peak data collection period from September - October. The speed (i.e., rows/minute) has performed as expected. The failure relates to intermittent losses of connectivity between the DQT staging tables and the ability of the interface to import data into the DQT CRM. Each failure requires manual management of the interface to re-start as needed by the current support team. This slows down the data exchange between DQT and HESA. There appears no consistency in the failure as on certain days HESA processed >1,000 records without failing, whilst on others the interface failed within the first 100 records. Remediation work by developers to remove affinity cookies (to force requests to go evenly between servers) and to enforce retires when the rate limit is hit, have been deployed. 
